Pan & Tilt Position Control System
==================================
This paper describes the development of a Pan & Tilt System for tracking a moving target. The system is designed for tracking the parabolic movement of a clay target in an English Skeet competition. Obtaining the position of the clay target is not a part of this project.

A mathematical model of the physical dynamics of the Pan & Tilt is derived and used as basis for the controller design.

Two digital PID-controllers are designed: one for the pan system and one for the tilt system. The controllers are designed in the discrete domain, and therefore a discretized model of the continuous part of the system is rst obtained. The controllers utilize position feedback from the two DC motors rotating the pan and tilt frames. The controller design process is aided by simulations of the Pan & Tilt systems respectively, so as to speed up the design process and take into account dead zone nonlinearities.

The control algorithms are implemented on a microcontroller, while the feedback of the DC motors is decoded and translated to positions on an FPGA. The FPGA thus provides the position feedback for the microcontroller. The PWM signals for the DC motors are generated by the FPGA, while the PWM duty cycles are calculated by the control algorithms. The microcontroller communicates with the FPGA through SPI.

The real-time requirements of the digital controllers are met through the use of a preemptive priority scheduling algorithm provided by the FreeRTOS operating system.

Test results are presented, verifying the mathematical model of the dynamics of the Pan & Tilt System and the real-time performance of the microcontroller. Furthermore, the performance of the system tracking a clay target in a English Skeet competition is measured.

The usefulness of the implemented digital controllers to the performance requirements of the application is discussed. Finally, options for further development of the system is discussed.

It is concluded that the developed Pan & Tilt System is not always able to accurately track the parabolic movement of the clay target while meeting the time requirements of the competition. However, in all the experiments with the optimized system, the measurements show that the system is able to accurately track the clay target for 0.42 seconds after the peak of it's parabolic
movement.